# RNA-seq-sEH-in-monocytes

Abstract

Polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolites generated by the cytochrome P450 - soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) pathway regulate inflammation but little is known about their role in its resolution. In a model of zymosan induced peritonitis we observed a delay in the resolution of inflammation in sEH-/- mice. Using monocyte-derived macrophages we observed a marked increase in sEH expression following repolarization from a classically activated to pro-resolving phenotype with TGF-b that required the activation of Alk5 and Smad2. However, sEH-deficient macrophages failed to fully repolarize, were less efficient at phagocytosis and retained a pro-inflammatory gene expression profile. Repolarization elicited marked changes in macrophage PUFA metabolites and 11,12-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (EET) was able to reproduce the effect of sEH-deletion on gene expression. 11,12-EET was also found to attenuate the expression of Alk5 to inhibit the TGF-b-induced phosphorylation of Smad2 by eliciting the translocation of the E3 ligase; Smurf2. These results indicate that the expression of sEH is not only controlled by TGF-b but that the activity of the enzyme, which keeps levels of 11,12-EET low, actually promotes TGF-b signaling by preventing the proteolytic degradation of Alk5. Thus, an autocrine loop between the sEH/11,12-EET and TGF-b1 determines macrophage function.
Keywords: soluble epoxide hydrolase, resolution of inflammation, ALK5, TGF-b signaling, epoxyeicosatrienoic acid



